DOCSP-40802: Distinct values (#28)
mongodb/docs-cpp: source/read/distinct.txt

.. _cpp-distinct:

==============================
Retrieve Distinct Field Values
==============================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: read, unique, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to use the {+driver-short+} to retrieve the
distinct values of a specified field across a collection.

Within a collection, different documents might contain different values for a
single field. For example, one document in a ``restaurants`` collection has a
``borough`` value of ``"Manhattan"``, and another has a ``borough`` value of

> ``"Queens"``. Using the {+driver-short+}, you can retrieve all the unique values

Reviewer: S: Because of the potential confusion of "using"

```suggestion
``"Queens"``. With the {+driver-short+}, you can retrieve all the unique values
```

Author: Changed to "by using" based on [this](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/meta/style-guide/terminology/alphabetical-terms/#std-term-using) style guide rec

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read/distinct.cpp
    :language: cpp
    :dedent:
    :start-after: start-db-coll
    :end-before: end-db-coll

To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:ref:`<cpp-get-started>` tutorial.

``distinct()`` Method
---------------------

To retrieve the distinct values for a specified field, call the ``distinct()``
method and pass in the name of the field you want to find distinct values for.

Retrieve Distinct Values Across a Collection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example retrieves the distinct values of the ``borough`` field in
the ``restaurants`` collection:

.. io-code-block::

   .. input:: /includes/read/distinct.cpp
      :start-after: start-distinct
      :end-before: end-distinct
      :language: cpp
      :dedent:

   .. output:: 

      { "values" : [ "Bronx", "Brooklyn", "Manhattan", "Missing", "Queens", "Staten Island" ],
      "ok" : 1.0, "$clusterTime" : { "clusterTime" : { "$timestamp" : { ... } },
      "signature" : { "hash" : { ... }, "keyId" : ... } }, "operationTime" : { "$timestamp" : { ... } }

> The operation returns a cursor that stores a single document, which includes a list of
> distinct ``borough`` field values and metadata about the operation. Although several

Reviewer: S: Separate sentences for clarity
```suggestion
The operation returns a cursor that contains a single document. The document includes a list of
distinct ``borough`` field values and metadata about the operation. Although several
```
